---
layout: story
title: "Intruder"
author: "Enan Ajmain"
email: "3nan.ajmain@gmail.com"
date: 2020-02-17
categories: [Flash Fiction]
comments: true
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

As he would do every other night, Atiq returned from his tuition, tired
and exhausted. He had gotten dinner at the hotel downstairs. The food
they served wasn’t healthy, but neither was Atiq health-conscious.

He brushed his teeth, turned off the light, and went to bed. After
watching videos for an hour or three, he slipped into sleep.

He woke up with his body paralyzed, mind awake but body asleep.

The doctors called it narcolepsy. He had been experiencing these
episodes since his college years. His doctors decided it was apparently
due to irregular sleep cycle and psychological stress. They assured him
it was nothing to be afraid of, that it was quite common. For all their
words, Atiq had a feeling none of them had narcolepsy themselves.
Otherwise, they would know it was definitely something to be afraid of.

Caw! CAW!

Atiq glanced at his right. There was a crow perched on the windowsill, a
dark silhouette against the pale moonlight. It stared at Atiq as if
waiting for a response. When it didn’t get any, it beat its wings and
cawed once more, harsher than before as if to show its urgency.

Moonlight seeped through the window like molten silver, creating an
eerie aura. The crow took flight——showering Atiq with a dreadful stench
of mold, blight and all things dead——and perched on his chest. It was
close enough for Atiq to see every barb of its dark, ominous feathers,
its eyes a black bead of threatening glare.

The crow cawed again, shifting its legs and beating its wings. It
started moving forward, toward Atiq’s face, its callus feet and sharp
nails digging into his bare chest. Panicking, Atiq shuddered, willing
his body to snap out of the episode. It didn’t work. Not a single muscle
moved.

With a hop, the crow sat on Atiq’s face, the damp stench of it
overwhelming him. He could not breath in such foul air. The underbelly
of the bird was spotted with gray flecks. It was sodden, damp and musty,
like the body of a rotting corpse. The crow cawed again, ringing Atiq’s
ears. He could do nothing except stare at the black intruder with
wide-eyed panic.

Hot blood pumped through Atiq’s veins, his body clammy and dank with
cold sweat. The crow started pecking at his face. At his lips, splitting
it apart for Atiq to taste his blood. At his nose, cutting it open for
Atiq to breath in his blood. At his eyes, gouging it out with a soggy
squeak.

Atiq sat bolt upright, screaming, and holding his hand over his eye. The
eye that was not there anymore.

A second later, Atiq stopped screaming. Panting and sweating, he moved
his hand around to feel his eye. *It’s still there!* He looked around
the dark room——lit only by the moonlight flowing in through the open
window——searching for the crow. There was no trace of it. Everything was
still and calm.

*Just a dream. Sheesh!*

Intending to catch up with his disrupted sleep, Atiq turned around and
patted his pillow.

A single dark feather floated up from the pillow and, swinging left and
right, settled down on it again.
