---
layout: story
title: "The Imaginator"
author: "Enan Ajmain"
email: "3nan.ajmain@gmail.com"
date: 2020-02-14
categories: [Short Story]
comments: true
permalink: "/:title.html"
---

Words are hard. They are hard to say, hard to listen to, hard to write
and read. Nonetheless, they are said, they are listened to, they are
written and read. Because they need to be, because we need them to be.
Without words, we are only a jumble of ideas, a cluster of concepts, a
knot of feelings. It’s words that give them form, integrity and
stability.

Sometimes words take forms other than marks on a paper or pixels on a
screen. Sometimes they are pictures, sometimes voices, sometimes even
wishes. For Rami, words were change, diversion, transmutation. They took
him where he wanted to go, showed him what he wished to see, let him do
what he chose to do. To Rami, words were magic.

They—his younger brother and his father—lived in a small house at the
end of the world. He was very small when his mother died—he was very big
now, about eight years old—and couldn’t remember how she died. He had
asked his father about that once and had seen a strange blue knot
torturing him. He didn’t know what the knot was or where it came from
but he understood his father didn’t like being strangled by the knot. He
also understood the knot appeared when his father missed his mother.
Since then, he had never asked his father about her.

Rami couldn’t remember much about her mother. Her face was a blur in his
memory. Her voice, too. In his imagination she was a tall woman with
dark hair and dark eyes. He remembered her eyes, two big pools of
darkness that swathed him in a sense of security, like a warm blanket.
Her voice, he imagined, was soft yet strong, playful yet commanding. He
also remembered her nails, polished red and yellow to an almost
obnoxious effect.

The only thing Rami distinctly recalled about his mother was the way she
used to tell him bedtime stories when he was little. The stories were
little, too. They always ended with some variant of ‘And they lived
happily ever after,’ the sweetness of which had a lingering aftertaste,
like the refreshing freshness after a menthol candy.

He remembered one story very clearly, as if heard just the night before.
The story of the mermen and mermaids. The story of the waterworld, where
monsters as big as whales roamed free and so did heroes as glorious as
Hercules. He remembered the awe and wonder the story emanated as he
listened to it, told by his mother with his father beside her.

His younger brother, Sami, was five years old. Rami had to look after
his brother after school when his father, who was a shopkeeper, went to
manage his shop. They had two toy cars about the size of a thumb. One
was green and the other red. Rami had made a race track with cutouts of
cardboard boxes on which they played with their cars. The toys didn’t
have any motors. So Rami had to be a little creative with the race
track. He propped the starting point up on a tower of books and let the
track gradually swivel down. They released the cars from the starting
point with a nudge and gravity did the rest.

When playing with the cars became boring, they played hide and seek in
and around the house. Rami was hiding in the storeroom when he found the
strange device which was, as he learned later from his father, a
typewriter.

“I recognize this,” said his father. “Where did you find it?”

“In the back of the storeroom,” replied Rami.

“What were you doing in there?”

“Hiding,” Rami started picking dirt out of his nails, not making eye
contact with his father.

“Rami, I told you not to play hide-and-seek when I’m not around. What if
something happens to Sami when you’re hiding?”

“He wanted to play. I told him you forbid it but he wouldn’t shut up
about it.”

“You’re the big brother, Rami. You can’t pin everything on your little
brother.”

“I’m not! I’m telling the truth.”

“Okay, okay. Just don’t let him out of your sight the next time I’m out
of the house, alright?”

“Uh huh,” Rami nodded.

“Alright?” his father pressed.

“Yes, father,” Rami replied properly. “What even is this thing anyway?”

“You don’t know? It’s a typewriter. People used to type on these before
computers and printers.”

“How does it work? Can you show me?”

“You want to use it?” Rami nodded. His father opened the front cover of
the typewriter. “It’s so old, it might not even work. There is too much
dust inside, and rust, too.”

“If it works, then will you show me?”

“I guess.”

“Whose is it? Yours?”

“No, it’s your mom’s.”

“Really?” His eyes must have gotten bigger, judging from the sudden
smile on his father.

“Yes. Her grandfather gave it to her when she was little. She used to
type fairy stories on this and we’d tell those to you before bedtime.”

“Yes! I remember that! Where are those? The stories, I mean.”

“I don’t know. Must have gotten lost somewhere.”

“Oh!” Rami sighed. “I’d have liked to have them.”

“Yeah. Me, too, kiddo. Now, go to sleep. It’s late already.”

Putting the typewriter on the bedside table, his father pulled the
blanket on Rami and, giving him a kiss and switching off the light, went
out of his room. After a few second, Rami got up and put down the
typewriter on his lap. He spent that night fussing with the typewriter
and went to sleep at the wake of dawn only to be woken two hours later
for school.

A couple of days later, his father gave him two rolls of ink ribbons and
a ream of copier paper. They cleaned the internals of the typewriter,
took out the dirt, soil and dust bunnies. Sami hung around them,
coughing and complaining but refusing to get out of the way. After it
was cleaned, Rami’s father showed him how to install the ribbon and use
it.

From that day Rami had a strange fascination with the typewriter and
found himself typing away for long stretches of time, sometimes even
without putting the paper in. He didn’t know exactly what attracted him.
Maybe it was the mechanical sound the keys made when he pushed them.
Maybe it was the sound of the bell when the carriage reached the end of
the margin. Or maybe it was the way it reminded him of his mother.
Whatever it was, one thing Rami was certain about. The typewriter was
magical.

Another strange thing about the typewriter was that Sami never wanted to
touch it. It was odd because whenever Rami had something new, Sami had
to play with it first, but the typewriter he only sat before and looked
at. Maybe, to him, it was magical too, but in a spooky sort of way.

So it came to pass that Rami sat in front of the typewriter everyday
after school til his father came home, with Sami sitting opposite him.
He named it Rimee, but someone, he didn’t know who, told him its name
was Underwood. So he called it Underwood instead. He would check if the
margin was set properly before rolling the paper in, like the world’s
most meticulous tinkerer. Then, pushing the carriage lever all the way
to the right margin, he would start typing, until the bell tinkled
indicating the carriage reaching the right margin.

Click-clack-click! Click-clack-click! Ding!

It was Thursday afternoon when he learned about the power of Underwood.
Sami was sick from food poisoning and his father took him to the doctor,
leaving Rami home alone. He put down the typewriter and dusted the pins
with a paintbrush, like the busy little worker bee he was. He checked
the margin, rolled the paper in the cylinder, pushed the carriage lever
to the right end and started typing.

*A shalow river ran by the tall and slender reeds, wind causing the
river and the reeds to shudder. The stary sky and the pale moon
reflected on the ripling water.*

Rami knew there were some spelling mistakes there, but he didn’t really
care. It was not as if he was taking an exam or anything.

When he pushed the lever all the way back to move the carriage to the
next line, he was transported, along with the typewriter and the desk it
was on, to a grassland populated with tall and slender reeds fluttering
with cool autumn wind where a rippling shallow river ran by reflecting
the starlit sky and ivory moon above.

He wasn’t afraid. He knew what had happened. *Of course!* The typewriter
was magical, as he had suspected from the beginning. And, now he knew
what its power was. Rami felt excited, heart hammering rapidly in his
chest, blood rushing through his veins with heavy pulses. *Calm down,*
he told himself, *figure out how to get back.*

He pulled the paper out and found himself sitting in his room, the soft
light of late afternoon slanting through the window. The scenery had
evaporated as swiftly as it had come to be. A slight burning sensation
forced Rami to look at his hand. The paper was burning with red and
yellow flame brighter than anything he had seen before. With a scream,
he threw the paper away and it vanished with a faint whoosh.

He was scared now, just a little. He was wise enough to know that
playing with flame was dangerous. *It’s alright, though,* he thought.
*Nothing bad happened.*

He didn’t tell what happened to anyone. Not to his father and neither to
Sami. He wanted to. He was very excited to tell them how he went to the
dreamland. But he was sure his father would take away Underwood when he
came to know about the flaming paper.

*I wouldn’t tell him about the flame,* he thought. *How would he know?*

*He would know,* came from somewhere. *You mustn’t tell him.*

*But this is magic! I have to tell someone. It’s too exciting not to
talk about.*

*If you do, your father will take away Underwood and lock it in the
storeroom,* the voice gradually became menacing. *You won’t be able to
use the magic then. Do you want that?*

*No,* he thought miserably.

*Keep it to yourself, then,* the voice became soothing again, almost
crooning.

Rami decided to keep quiet about what he had experienced. Until he
understood exactly how the magic worked, at least. That night, twisting
and turning on the bed long after his father tucked him in, something
occurred to him.

*If Underwood can make what I write come to life,* he thought. *Maybe it
can take me to mom, too.*

*Maybe it can,* came the lulling voice. *If you really want it to.*

Fearing what might happen and who might see, Rami didn’t use the
typewriter the next day at all. At night, however, after all the lights
in the house were turned off and his brother—who shared his room—stopped
tossing and turning, Rami got up and sat at his desk. Rolling a paper in
the cylinder, he started typing, the mechanical sound of the keys
piercing the still night but not waking his sleeping brother.

Click-clack-click! Click-clack-click! Click-clack-click!

*In the middle of the woods, animals roamed and birds chirped. The sun
was a bright ball of fire and the sky a cloudless blue. The wind was
ripe with smell of a thousand nameless flowers. Right in the center of
everything was a pool covered with pink and green lilies, at the brink
of which sat my mom.*

Just like before, when he pushed the carriage lever back with a
satisfying swift motion, he found himself transported to the place of
his imagining. His nose was filled with the overwhelming odor of
boundless blossom. At the edge of the lily-covered pool in the middle of
a woodland, where the sky was bright and sunny, relaxed a woman with her
feet submerged in the pool.

“Mom?” Rami mused. He was too far away—the typewriter still on his
desk—for the woman to hear. She had beads of small flowers around her
neck and her arms, and a circlet of bright red and yellow blossoms on
her head. She hadn’t seen him yet. Rami drifted toward her as if in a
trance.

“Mom?” Rami repeated, when he was close enough.

She turned toward him. “Honey! You came!” Her smile was like a thousand
sun smiling as one, bringing Rami out of the daze.

“Mom?” Rami repeated, stupidly.

“Yes, honey.” Taking his hand in hers, his mother—*she is my mom*—pulled
him down beside her and lifted his chin on her hand. “Look how you’ve
grown. I missed you so much, son. Did you miss me?”

“Yes, mom,” his eyes stung. *I can’t cry in front of mom,* he thought.
*I’m a big boy. What would she think of me? A wuss.*

“Oh, honey, don’t cry,” she was crying, too. She pulled him close and
embraced him. He remembered the undeniable feeling of security he had
felt when his mother held him as a baby. “We’re together now. Don’t cry,
baby.”

Releasing Rami and smoothing over his hair, his mother stood up.

“I’ve something to show you,” she said, beaming. “You’re gonna love it.”
She turned around, toward the pool still as leaves on a tree in a
windless afternoon. Beckoning Rami once more, she started trudging
through the pool, going deeper and deeper. “Come on, son.” He went.

Slowly he went down into the pool, not caring whether he would be able
to breath. *Mom is here,* he thought, for the hundredth time.

When his head went under the surface, breathing as normally as he did
above surface, he saw the world buried under his world, wonder engulfing
him as did the cold-warm water of the pool. He remembered the what he
saw around him. *It’s the waterworld from the stories,* he thought.
Schools of fish zoomed and flocks of bird dashed all around him,
splashing colors of such intensity that his eyes hurt. It was everything
he had imagined while listening to the story magnified and heightened to
an unimaginable level. Although he was able to breath, he forgot to do
so for a heartbeat.

“Mom, it’s the waterworld from the stories! Remember?”

“I know, honey. I knew you’d like it.”

“I love it,” he rotated around once, then once more, to take everything
in. “Where is this place? It’s like I’m in a dream.”

“It’s… Don’t worry about that. Just enjoy.”

Rami was not aware how much time had passed. He was not sure if time had
passed at all. Everything seemed to stand still, exist outside the real
world. Or maybe he was too overwhelmed with awe to care about mundane
things like time passing. He saw a squid as big as his house swim by,
pushing its tentacles out and in with captivating motion. He watched a
tortoise roll by, old and shriveled as his grandma was, calm and
collected as his grandpa was. He noticed a horde of unmounted horse
galloping by a few feet in front of him, barded with gold and silver
caparisons as if going on a battle. He watched and revered and felt like
he was in a dream.

The most exciting element of the whole experience was, of course, his
mother. She showed him around the world under water with such knowledge
as if she was an inhabitant of the place, or at least a regular visitor.
He listened to her voice, her laughter, her breath. He watched her hair
moving slowly under water, her eyes darting lively here and there, her
hands pointing out all things incredible around them. Everything seemed
perfect.

Until the moment everything went still.

The water, the creatures, his mother; all were standing still as if time
stopped moving. Only he was not standing still. He panicked.

“Mom? Mom!” He pleaded, tugging at her arm but not being able to move
her an inch. “Please, what’s happening?”

*Underwood,* came from the dreaded place. *Something must have happened
to it.*

*Yes,* he thought. *That must be it.*

“I’ll be back, mom,” he promised. “I just have to check on something.
Don’t go anywhere.” Giving a light kiss on her hand, he went running
through the water toward the edge.

He came up from the water; the water didn’t move a bit, not caring to
follow the laws of physics. He waded through the water toward the tree
under which stood the desk.

He ran toward the typewriter, and saw the page full, from top to bottom,
both sides, with transcription of everything happened in the dreamworld.

*The paper is wasted,* he thought. *I just need to place another paper.*
He pulled out the used paper and found himself sitting at his desk in
his room, everything pitch black except the little moonlight coming
through the window in front. He looked at the used paper in his hand,
burning bright with red and yellow flames, but, unlike last time, not
burning his hand. Within a second, the paper burned out, vanished with a
muffled whoosh like before.

He pulled out a new paper from the ream, but before he could roll it in,
he heard muffled footsteps.

*Dad is coming,* he thought, miserably. Quickly, he put the new paper in
the ream and lied down, willing his heart to beat slower. Then, he
waited. A second later, the door to his room opened with a creaking
sound and Rami felt someone coming in. Someone came and stood beside his
bed, slowly bent down, and pulled the blanket up to his chin. Rami
breathed out, silently. *It was dad,* he thought, reassured. *Who else
would it be, silly?*

Rami wanted to wait a few minutes before he used the typewriter again,
but before he could do that, he started catching some heavy Z’s. The
excitement of everything made him overlook how tired he was.

The next day, he had to go to school. But all he could think about was
how he had met his mother last night and how he was going to use the
typewriter again. As soon as the bells rang, he returned home,
essentially running.

His father had gone to his shop, leaving Sami home alone. Rami brought
out the typewriter and knelt in front of Sami, holding his shoulders.

“You wanna know something?” Rami asked.

“What?” Sami asked instead.

“Before that, tell me. Do you miss mom?”

“Of course, I do. What kind of a question is that?”

“I don’t know. It’s just a question.”

“Well, it was a mean thing to ask. Of course, I miss mom.”

“Do you want to meet her?” Rami went on.

“What? How?” Sami asked, incredulous.

“Come here,” Rami pulled him toward the typewriter sitting on the desk.
“With this. This typewriter is magical, Sami. Whatever you write with it
comes true. I wrote myself meeting my mother, and guess what? I met her.
Last night.”

“Rami, you’re scaring me. You don’t sound right.”

“What? No, I’m telling you,” Rami started shaking his brother. “This
typewriter is magical. I used it just last night. I met mom. Don’t you
want to meet her?”

“Rami, you’re hurting me,” Sami pulled away from him. “I’m going to tell
dad that you’re going crazy.”

“What? No, no, no,” Rami grabbed hold of Sami again, shaking him
vigorously by his shoulder. “You can’t do that. He will know about the
flames, then, and take Underwood away. I won’t let you tell him.”

“Okay, okay. I won’t tell him. Just let go of me.”

“Sorry,” Rami let him go. “I got scared. Don’t tell dad, though.”

“I won’t,” Sami promised. “Wanna play with cars?”

“Okay.”

“I want the red car.”

“Whatever.”

The day passed playing with cars, and later hide-and-seek, although his
father forbid it. Rami didn’t have a chance to sit at the desk. He
wanted to. He was practically counting each second until he could start
typing and visit his mom.

At night, when the night stilled and his brother stopped talking to his
teddy bear, when the crickets outside started to announce their
existence, he silently got up from his bed and sat in front of his desk.
Rolling a paper in the cylinder, he started typing, same thing he typed
the night before, the sound of the mechanical keys competing with that
of the crickets.

Click-clack-click! Click-clack-click! Click-clack-click!

As had happened the night before, with the swift sliding motion of the
carriage return lever, he was transported to the woods where his mother
sat by a pool.

“Mom!” He ran toward her. “I’m sorry, about last night. I told you I’d
come back.”

“But you did come back, son. Here you are.” She took him in her embrace,
showering him with the same sense of security and warmth he had felt
before.

The journey went on as before. They went down under the water surface of
the pool and into the waterworld of the fairy stories his mother
fabricated when he was little. He gasped in wonder, whooped in awe,
cried in amazement.

Until his mother mentioned how this was to be the last time Rami visited
her.

“What? Why?” asked Rami, incredulous. “I can just put new paper in and
come back again.”

“I’m sorry, honey. That won’t work anymore.”

“Why not? It has worked before.”

“Do you remember the story of the Genie?”

“You mean ‘Aladdin and the Magic Lamp’?”

“Yes, that one. You know how the jinn grants only three wishes?”

“No! But Underwood is not a jinn,” Rami returned, grasping at anything
he could find. “It’s totally different.”

“Except it’s not, honey. They all work the same way. It’s called the
‘Rule of Three.’”

“You’re saying I won’t see you anymore? That this is the last time?”

“Yes, honey. I’m sorry.”

“How do you even know I used Underwood three times? I came to you only
twice.”

“It doesn’t matter how I know.”

“It matters to me. I can’t leave you, I missed you too much. There must
be some way. There must be.”

“There is, honey. We can all be together again. You, Sami, your father.”
she took his face in both her hands, her black eyes deep as the darkest
night, her nails—polished red and yellow—bright as the blazing sun. “We
can all live together happily ever after.”

Rami understood. *Of course! It’s simple.* Promising his mother he would
be back again, one way or another, he went above surface and toward the
typewriter. Taking a glimpse for the last time behind him, he saw his
mother waving toward him, her legs half submerged in the pool, the
circlet of flowers on her head bright red and yellow. He pulled the used
paper out of the typewriter and, as had happened twice before, was
transported back to his room, at his desk. The paper on his hand burned
out with a muted whoosh.

Getting up from the desk, he strolled toward his sleeping brother, the
typewriter in his hand. He lifted it over his head.

*First Sami, then dad, then me,* he thought. *We’ll all live happily
ever after.*

With that thought, he brought down the typewriter.
